So lets continue on about our
discussions of binary files in Python.
And what we're going to do is talk
about something called pickle.
Now if you've used Java in the past
you might be familiar with
the concept of serialization.
That's a process that allows
objects to be saved to a file.
So that they can be stored or
restored I should say from the file later.
Now python provides a mechanism for
serializing objects called pickling.
Hence the word pickle.
So when and object is pickled and
it's written to a file and
format that contains the objects data
together with sufficient information to
allow that object to be recreated
when it's loaded back in.
Now as we've seen,
converting an object to a byte array.
in order to save it into a binary
file isn't particularly easy, and
we saw that in the previous video.
And no information about
the object itself is stored,
unless we write code to somehow do that.
And if you thought just writing
a simple number was complicated,
imagine how tricky it would be to store
something like our locations dictionary
From the adventure game challenge
that we've done previously.
Clearly there needs to be
a better way of doing it.
Now using pickle,
saving objects is very easy and
I'm gonna show you that in an example.
Now once again,
what we're gonna do is we're going to
use the details, detail as I should say.
If you remember the that
we saw in an earlier video.
So let's make a start,
first we're gonna type import pickle,
which is a library that we're
going to be using for this,
we're gonna type imelda = (
'More Mayhem', Imelda May.
2011.
And it's gonna be 1, the actual song's
Pulling the Rug [SOUND]
Two psycho.
Three, let's put a bracket there.
Three.
Mayhem and lastly four
Kentish Town Wall.
And three brackets.
So that's that line.
Now the code To pick all
these saved objects.
So what we're trying to do is pickle,
or save this imelda object, effectively.
So we're going to type
with open("imelda.pickle",
"Wb").
Or you can also do double quote set, Wb.
s pickle_file.
And we'll talk pickle.dump
imelda pickle file.
So looking at the code,
we first have to import the pickle
module to be able to use it.
And that's the line one that does that.
So it can be saved with
a single call as you saw
on line 12 using the pickle.dump method.
Is quite complex cuz it's obviously
got a tuple containing another tuple,
of tuples for the track listings.
Even so, it can be stored with a single
dump call, which is pretty cool.
So, now, the format of the data
is specific to Python.
That's important.
And if we open the [INAUDIBLE] file
in Editor, for example, IntelliJ.
So, if we come back here or
need to run it first so it gets created,
then we should find the [INAUDIBLE] in
our project then we'll try and open it.
You saw it appear over there other side.
So if you try to open it,
it wants you to associate a file type
we'll click on text to see what happens.
You can see the format that is
on screen now for this object.
You could also open this in if
you prefer to do that as well.
So you can see the data is clearly
present there you can see bits and
pieces of the data.
But there's a load of binary data sort of
in and around it, and you can see those
sort of strange characters that we
talked about in the previous video.
The good thing about this though,
is that fortunately,
the pickle module itself takes care
of all the structural detail for us.
So in other words,
we can just load our object back
easily by using the pickle.load method.
So close that down.
So obviously pickle.dump, and
to retrieve it We do pickle.load.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm just going to that code.
So we still got there.
And I'll just grab this bit of code.
We'll just make a change to it.
So comment that again and
this time instead of writing we
are going to read from it again.
So we are going to read.
So with open.
And the name of the file that we use to
save it we're gonna set that to read.
Let's just call that [INAUDIBLE] _pickled.
And we need to change this format.
It's not a dump anymore, so
it's going to be [INAUDIBLE]
the variable that we want to be
used is gonna contain the data.
Equals then we type pickle.load and it's
only at this point now imelda_pickled.
So imelda_pickled,
like so.So that's now reading the data
out of the imelda.pickle file.
And out in order two object.
Now just to confirm that we can go print
two and of course we go album, artist,
year, track, list equals m l two.
Make it print album, print artist,
print year, and then we can even go for
track in track and let's call list.
Okay, and let's extract
the data from the top one now.
So, its track track_number,
track_title = track.
And of course at that point,
we can then print(track_number,
track_title) like so.
If we run that, You can see we've got all
that data, loaded from that binary file.
Pulled back into Python and then stored in
the Imelda 2 variable, and we're able to
go right through it all, through the
topless role grabbing the necessary data.
So it's all been stored and
nicely retrieved, by that simple command,
pickle.load Now the good thing is,
once you open the file for
writing, we can literally pick as many
objects as we want to in that one file.
So to show that, I'm just gonna
uncomment some of this card.
And this card again, cause we wanna
write that again to this file.
Now I'll comment this bit here.
So I'm going to start off
with our melded data again,
and then up here, we're going to
create a few extra, two extra lists.
So even equals list list range, 0, 10,
2 And odd equals list(range(1,10, 20).
So we can do with open imelda.pickle and
we can dump the imelda
list first, which we're doing online
41 but then we can also add to that.
So we can put pickle.dump[even],
pickle_file, pickle.dump[odd],
pickle_file.
We can even do pickle.
Type in a number like 299302,
pickle underscore file as well.
That stored all four,
all three variables, in fact this
other number bar that we typed in.
And we can grab this code back We can
grab all this code there that we used to
read it back it object first
brough that back in and
we'll uncomment that so
that we'll be able to see our data again.
Print that all out including the tuples.
Then we'll make a gap there so
it will print.
I'm gonna put for i in even_list, so
we're gonna extract all the items
out of the list, the even list.
Print[i].
And what we need to do here, is before
that'll work, we need to change this so
we also grab the other data out as well.
So we're going to put
even_list = pickle.load.
And that's going to be _pickled.
Then I'll put odd_list =
pickle.load( _pickled).
And let's just say x =
pickle.load( .pickled).
So we've now grabbed the full data Items
relating to the items that we saved in
lines 41 to 44 and we into these
variables in lines 47 through 50.
So now we can print them out so
we are printing out obviously.
But also we've now gone
through the even list.
And we can do the same for
the odd list as well.
Let's just put another space in there and
copy all that and
we'll make that odd list.
Of this.
>> [NOISE]
>> And then we'll put another one there.
Another long spacing effectively.
And predicts.
So what should have happened now is we
should be saving the four variables you
can see there we're now retrieving them
back then I'm just going through them,
printing out the values
of the various ones and
they should equate to the values
that we used when we saved.
And then you can see that all the items
in there including x, which of
course which was the number from line 44
that we typed in without a variable name.
So the only real thing to remember here
when we're doing this is that the objects
themselves must be read back in
the same order that they're written.
So we pick followed by two lists and
an integer So we have to read back a.
Very important to do it in the same order.
Much of the code in this example is
concerned with initializing the variables
and printing them out.
The actually reading and
writing is really only four lines.
It's lines 41 to 44 to write, and
47 to 50 to load them back in.
And I think you'll agree it's a lot easier
Than the earlier approach of
converting everything to binaries.
And the good thing also is,
there's very few objects in Python that
can not be saved by pickling them.
Now when you're pickling
objects to save to a file,
you can choose from one From one which at
the time of the recording the video five
different protocols that python is
going to use when serialising the data.
Now the latest version is version four and
that was introduced with python 3.4.
That was an improvement
on the earlier protocols.
In other words, it was better support for
very large objects and
also the ability to pickle
more kinds of objects.
The protocols, this is the disadvantages,
aren't backwards compatible.
Sometimes if you use a version 4 protocol
from earlier Python versions And
you won't be able to un tuple your data so
just to confirm the protocols
aren't backwards compatible so
if you used the version four protocol from
earlier python versions you
won't be able to add data.
So let's go through and
look at some of the different types.
So the original protocol was and
what we can do is we can change the way
we the data by the protocol And
then go back and actually have a look
at the file itself that is produced.
So I'm going to change these lines to do
with writing the file lines 41 though 44,
and what we want to do is put
the third parameter there.
We're going to put call
comma protocol equals zero.
I'm going to do that for all three.
Like so, and now if we run that and
then close this window off, and
if we have a look at that file,
you can see there that we've got something
down Now that's much easier to read.
Now it still doesn't make perfect sense.
You can see there's a bracket
there in t7 and tp8.
And so
it still doesn't make complete sense but
we can set the numbers in our data
are delivered with a capital L.
That's really the point we wanna make
there, that the limiter is an there.
And you can see the 2998302 there with
an L on either side of it as well.
So you can at least make out that
the numerical values are And
you can see most of the other data, so
that's protocol zero, but there's always
the protocol version one, and that's the
first primary protocol in old versions of
python should be able to unpick
the data created with that protocol.
Now python 2.3 introduced
The protocol version two,
which could pick up classes or
efficiently.
Now, this version, protocol version two,
also has a never security checks removed.
It was declared insecure, and for that
reason, really I don't suggest you use it.
And, we'll discuss more about that
security implication shortly.
Now the first Python 3 protocol
was Version 3, unsurprisingly.
And this is also the default protocol,
which is used if you don't
specify one obviously early on.
In our code, before we added the protocol
equal, we didn't specify one,
so we were using protocol
version three by default.
Now all versions of Python 3 can
understand that protocol that's version 3,
but data created, this is important,
won't be readable using Python 2.x
any version of version 2 of Python.
It's very important if you are sort of
creating code that's gonna be using Python
2 and Python 3.
The protocol used to pickle objects can
be determined by Python automatically.
So it's not necessary in other words to
specify a protocol when using the method.
In fact you could use different
protocols in the same file, even.
So you could do something like this.
Instead of putting a number there,
so let's go back and
we could put Protocol equals
pickle.HIGHEST_PROTOCOL.
You can leave the second one at zero,
the third one is we could say something
at pickle.DEFAULT_PROTCOL and
we can even do the same for that one
as well so pickle.DEFAULT_PROTOCOL.
That's still going to
work if you run this.
You see we've still got our data back and
everything is working fine.
Because Python's got those checks in built
to know which protocol is being used for
a particular dump, which is pretty neat.
And we're gonna even open the file
up again and have a look at it.
We notice that we've got a couple
of different formats in there.
You can see the even numbers there,
two, four, six, eight, delimited by Ls.
But the other ones don't
really make a lot of sense,
because they're much more
binary than the other version.
Of course why the even numbers are working
is that we are used protocol 0 for
that line for the even numbers.
Which was, of course, the most human
readable of all the protocols.
There's probably no good reason why
you would ever want to do it that way.
Except maybe to demonstrate that
the method can't automatically detect
the correct protocol version to use.
Now to talk about security protocol
versions before version two performed
a safety check when but
the problem was the program
would refuse to call functions or
class instructors that weren't marked.
Now these checks were
removed in version 2 on
the basis that the security checks
hadn't been extensively audited.
And as it turns out,
a number of bugs made them easy to
circumvent in most Python versions.
As a result,
it was safe If we publicizing the fact
that pickling uses an insecure protocol,
rather than people trusting a protocol
that haven't been thoroughly checked.
And even protocols that have
been checked such as SSH For
arguments sake, have security flaws, but
the flaws are far more dangerous if
the protocol is trusted, so we think
prior from the python team made the right
decision by publicizing that fact.
So what the message here is that
You should really only unpickling
data that you can trust.
Pickling is fun for storing your program's
data but shouldn't be used when dealing
with data of untrusted sources such as
over the internet for argument's sake.
So rather than repeated several times and
hope that one or
two people actually take the notice
what we'll do is we'll demonstrate
how easy it is to wreak
havoc by unpickling data.
They can't be trusted and
interesting enough this [INAUDIBLE]
will give us a chance to look
at another way to pickle and
un pickle using the dumps and
loads method.
These are very similar to dump and
load, but
instead of writing to
we're reading from a file.
What they do is send data to or get
data from a bytes object, in other words
a sequence of bytes So we're gonna
create a row byte sequence that uses
pickle.load to create an object that it
represents, but exactly the same effect
could be reduced by saving the bytes in
a file and calling the pickle.load method.
So the short program's gonna be here, and
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna paste
it on screen just to show you.
You wanna use the right one for
your operating system.
And what we're going to do,
is just after everything else there,
we're going to paste that code in there,
leave the pickle out, import cause
that's already at the top of the line.
But we're going to put another one in
here, to separate, separator there.
Now you're going to want to use
one of these lines of code.
and I'm obviously going to use the top
one because I'm running on a Mac, but
if you're a Linux user
you'd also use that, but
if you're a Window's user you're going
to want to use the one on the next line.
If your looking at that carefully you're
probably going to get an idea what's going
to happen here, but I'll leave you in
suspense and not tell you until it's done.
So I'm going to delete that because we
don't want to run a Windows command
on a Mac, but you'd leave that in
if you were on a Windows machine.
So we're going to delete that now And what
we'll do is we'll comment out all this
other code now because
we've already got our file.
We've already got imelda.pickle.
And just pay attention to
imelda.pickle over here.
And I'm gonna run it and
watch what happens.
Did you see what happened?
It actually disappeared.
So obviously, very,
very simple example of what the code
Was the code to remove a file, RM is
remove file in a Linux or Mac machine.
And of course, if you use a Windows
machine, del is the command to delete.
Bottom line is just by executing
that command pickle.load S,
it actually deleted that file.
So this is obviously a very simple
example, and it only deleted a single file
And no real damage was done but
it doesn't take much effort to imagine
far worse results that could result
from using a from a untrusted source.
Now our data was a representation
of an os dot system object
that's used to execute
operating system commands.
And because our stream included
the command to delete the file
The simple act of loading a data file
resulted in another file being deleted.
That's the point I wanna make here.
We're loading a file, and
just loading that file caused
something else to be deleted.
And again, a very simple example but
you can imagine some
spywares could be created or could be
caused by easy untrusted sources here.
So the pickle module itself's very useful.
And it's great for storing and
retrieving your own data.
And there's also ways to prevent
the security problems we've just seen.
So it is possible to use
pickle in production code,
but these methods are quite advanced.
I mean We won't be until
much later in the course.
What you really need to do is heed
the warning at the web server I'm about to
put on the screen.
If you do that you'll have no trouble
using the pickle module to desist your
programs data.
So let's just open that up briefly
before we end the lecture.
Here's the link and
link will be in the resources section and
just have a look at that and it talks more
and more detail about Serialization and
again if you just heed the warnings
on that page you'll be good to go.
Alright, so
we'll see you in the next video.